Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. It's a language that gives instructions to the computer as a language that computer understand.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.

   Some most useful JDK components:
   1. JRE: Java Runtime Environment
   2. java: It’s simply a loader that works for all the java applications. Also, this particular tool interprets the class file generated by javac.
   3. javac: It’s a compiler. And, basically, it converts source code into Java bytecode.
   4. appletviewer: Through this component, without taking the help of a web browser, we can run the Java applets and even debug them.
   5. javadoc: It is a documentation generator, which produces documentation from source code comments, automatically
   6. jar: It is an archiver. Along with related class libraries packages into one JAR file. Also, it manages those files
   7. jdb: It’s a debugger.

What is IDE?
A.  Integrated Development Environment(IDE) enables programmers to consolidate the different aspects of writing a computer program.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. DrJava, Eclipse, IntelliJ, JCreator, JGRASP, JDeveloper(Oracle)


Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
=  A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.

What is object?
= An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
=  An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.
Why main is static?
= Because compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
= Object class is superclass of every class in Java.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
= PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java program and compile java source file.Operating System will look in this PATH for executables.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
= Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
= You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class. What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.
what is Access Specifier?
= Java Access Specifiers. regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
= Object-oriented programming. Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
= A package in Java is used to group related classes. java. lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
= it means application programming interface (API) in java. import java.util.Scanner; and import java.util.*;
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
=No java does not support Multiple Inheritance directly because it leads Method overriding extended same class and same method name. java doesnt support multiple inheritance but through interface java supports multiple inheritance
What is method overloading and when it happens?
= Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
= Java exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally. Briefly, here is how they work. Program statements that you think can raise exceptions are contained within a try block. If an exception occurs within the try block, it is thrown.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
= In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. When a member of the class is declared as static, it can be accessed before the objects of its class are created, and without any object reference.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
= Final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
What is final, finally and finalize?
= Final class can't be inherited,  Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
= Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
= yes.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
= If a class does not explicitly declare any constructor, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
= This is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
= super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
= Java virtual machine (JVM)
Is JVM platform independent?
= No
What version of java are you using?
=java 9
What is JAR stand for ?
= Java ARchive.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
=JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode. JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
= JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.JRE is Java Runtime Environment, is what you need to run a Java program and contains a JVM, among other things.
What is compile time and run time?
= Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running.
What is heap?
= The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
= In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
= The String class is an immutable class whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder classes are mutable.
What is Singleton class?
= a singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
=
when to use transient variable in java?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
= while loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.
What is Enum?
= An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants
What is Iterator?
= Iterator is an interface available in Collection framework in java.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
= Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
= The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
= Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
=  serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.
What is JIT stands for?
= Just in time
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
= Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
= No
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
= stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
=ava Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.
what is multithreading in java?
= Multithreading in Java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
= Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
= A Java™ framework is a type of framework specific to the Java programming language, used as a platform for developing software applications and Java programs.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
= Arquillian. JTest, the Grinder, TestNG, JUnit, JWalk etc.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
=  TestNG uses test groups, which can categorize tests according to features such as run times.  But whereas JUnit is designed to hone in on a unit of code,
What are the dependencies for this project?
= A project dependency is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion or initiation of the other.
what is dependency injection in java?
=dependency injection is a technique whereby one object supplies the dependencies of another object In Java
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
=Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.








