Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. =Use of appropriate data structure enables a computer system to perform its task more efficiently, by influencing the ability of computer to store and retrieve data from any location in its memory.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
=The possible operations on the linear data structure are: Traversal, Insertion, Deletion, Searching, Sorting and Merging.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
= Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, and Simulation.

what is an Array?
= An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
= Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.

what is LinkedList?
= A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
=An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

what is queue?
= A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO)

what is stack?
= Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
= FIFO(First In Fist Out) and LIFO(Last In First Out).

what is the order of complexity?
= Complexity This is respectively the order of constant, logarithmic, linear and so on, number of steps, are executed to solve a given problem

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
= Best searching technique for searching any element in an array is Linear search for a unsorted array where no specific pattern is given.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
= The worst case complexity is O(n/2) (equivalent to O(n)) when element is in the middle or not present in the array.

what is tree in data structure?
= A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data structures.

what is graph in data structure?
=A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
= Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones. Hashtable does not allow null keys or values.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas :
= RDBMS= Array, Network data model= Graph and Hierarchical data model= trees.

How HashMap works in java?
=HashMap in Java works on hashing principle. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
= ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs when we try to access an element of an array, with an index that is negative or more than the size of array itself.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
= Manually, Arrays.copyOf(), System.arraycopy(), Object.clone().

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
= Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. On the other hand, Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references to the previous and next element.

What is DFS and BFS?
= DFS stands for Depth First Search and BFS stands for Breadth First Search.

What is Recursion?
= The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
= linear data structures arrange data in a sequential manner while nonlinear data structures arrange data in a hierarchical manner, creating a relationship among the data elements.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
= Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
= Efficient sorts. Practical general sorting algorithms are almost always based on an algorithm with average time complexity (and generally worst-case complexity) O(n log n), of which the most common are heap sort, merge sort, and quicksort.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.21qdc
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.

= Pros:
  Easy to create, Easy to use
  Direct indexing: O(1)
  Sequential access: O(N)

 cons:
 Sorting: O(NLogN)
 Searching: O(N), and O(LogN) if sorted
 Inserting and deleting: O(N) because of shifting items.
